# BIOMD0000000217: 

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000217.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000217.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**The multifarious short-term regulation of ammonium assimilation of Escherichia coli: dissection using an in silico replica.**   
Bruggeman FJ, Boogerd FC, Westerhoff HV. _FEBS J._ 2005 Apr;272(8):1965-85.
[15819889](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/PMEDID) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Ammonium assimilation in Escherichia coli is regulated through multiple
mechanisms (metabolic, signal transduction leading to covalent modification,
transcription, and translation), which (in-)directly affect the activities of
its two ammonium-assimilating enzymes, i.e. glutamine synthetase (GS) and
glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH). Much is known about the kinetic properties of
the components of the regulatory network that these enzymes are part of, but
the ways in which, and the extents to which the network leads to subtle and
quasi-intelligent regulation are unappreciated. To determine whether our
present knowledge of the interactions between and the kinetic properties of
the components of this network is complete - to the extent that when
integrated in a kinetic model it suffices to calculate observed physiological
behaviour - we now construct a kinetic model of this network, based on all of
the kinetic data on the components that is available in the literature. We use
this model to analyse regulation of ammonium assimilation at various carbon
statuses for cells that have adapted to low and high ammonium concentrations.
We show how a sudden increase in ammonium availability brings about a rapid
redirection of the ammonium assimilation flux from GS/glutamate synthase
(GOGAT) to GDH. The extent of redistribution depends on the nitrogen and
carbon status of the cell. We develop a method to quantify the relative
importance of the various regulators in the network. We find the importance is
shared among regulators. We confirm that the adenylylation state of GS is the
major regulator but that a total of 40% of the regulation is mediated by ADP
(22%), glutamate (10%), glutamine (7%) and ATP (1%). The total steady-state
ammonium assimilation flux is remarkably robust against changes in the
ammonium concentration, but the fluxes through GS and GDH are completely
nonrobust. Gene expression of GOGAT above a threshold value makes expression
of GS under ammonium-limited conditions, and of GDH under glucose-limited
conditions, sufficient for ammonium assimilation.

This version of the model originates from [JWS
online](http://jjj.biochem.sun.ac.za/) . The original model can be retrieved
[here](http://jjj.biochem.sun.ac.za/database/bruggeman/download.html) .  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models. It is copyright (c) 2005-2009 The BioModels Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use [Le Nov√®re N., Bornstein B., Broicher
A., Courtot M., Donizelli M., Dharuri H., Li L., Sauro H., Schilstra M.,
Shapiro B., Snoep J.L., Hucka M. (2006) BioModels Database: A Free,
Centralized Database of Curated, Published, Quantitative Kinetic Models of
Biochemical and Cellular Systems Nucleic Acids Res., 34: D689-D691.](http://ww
w.pubmedcentral.nih.gov/articlerender.fcgi?tool=pubmed&pubmedid=16381960)


